# Stylie - A CSS 3 animation tool

Stylie is a fun tool for easily creating CSS 3 animations.  You can configure
your animation graphically, tweak it, grab the generated CSS and go!

## The Stylie Workflow

When you first open the app, you will see a little ball moving from left to
right.  You probably don't want to animate an image of a ball, so click the
"HTML" tab in the control panel on the right.  This textarea contains the HTML
that is being animated.  You can put whatever you want in here, but let's stick
some text in there for starters:

````html
<h1>Hello there!</h1>
````

The preview updates automatically.  Next, you'll want to change the beginning
and ending positions of the animation.  Just click and drag the crosshairs to
your liking.  When your cursor is not focused on a text input, you can hold the
Shift key to make rotation handles appear on the crosshairs.  Click and drag
the handles to modify the starting and ending rotation positions.

If you want to tweak the crosshairs with more granularity, open the "Keyframes"
tab and input specific values.  "R" means "rotation."

### Motion control

You can have fine-grained control over your animation.  Click the "Tween" tab
in the control panel to see the properties of the tween.  For number fields
such as "duration," you can type in the value or just press the up or down
arrow keys to tweak it.

You can test out different easing formulae by selecting them from the
dropdowns. You can control the easing formulae for each property of the
animation.  The preview updates automatically.  You can also specify a custom
easing formula if you don't like the provided ones.  Simply input your formula
into the "custom easing" fields.  What you put into these fields must be valid
JavaScript.  Once you have inputted your custom formula, you can select
"customEase1" or "customEase2" from the dropdowns.

### Playback control

You'll notice a playhead in the bottom left of the screen.  This is fully
interactive; you can can play, pause and stop the animation.  You can also
click and drag the playhead and zip to any part of the timeline.

### Generating your CSS

Once you've configured the animation to your liking, it is time to generate the
CSS to be used in your web page.  Click on the "CSS" tab in the control panel
to see the ready-to-use CSS.  You can configure the generated CSS for your
specific needs, such as the name of the CSS class on the DOM element to be
animated, and which browser vendors you want to support.  More complex
animations will generate very verbose CSS, so be aware of that.

## Developing Stylie

Stylie is open source, so you are welcome to make changes.  If you do, you'll
want to be using `dev.html`, not 'index.html`.  The latter is generated by the
build process.  Building Stylie requires NodeJS.  Assuming a fairly recent
version of Node is installed, all you need to do is:

````
$: node build.js
````

Ta-da!  All of the JavaScript binaries will be generated and `index.html` will
be updated.

A note about script loading in Stylie: Code is loaded in kind of a weird way,
because it works well enough and there hasn't been a good reason to take the
time to straighten it out.  In short, libraries like jQuery and Backbone are
loaded with `<script>` elements in the HTML, and app modules are loaded with
Require.js.  So, libraries are exposed globally.
